use utf8;

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Lingua::Translate::Google - Translation back-end for Google's translation service.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Lingua::Translate;

 Lingua::Translate::config
     (
         back_end => 'Google',
         api_key  => 'YoUrApIkEy',
         referer  => 'http://your.domain.tld/yourdir/',
     );

 my $xl8r = Lingua::Translate->new( src => 'de', dest => 'en' );

 # prints 'My hovercraft is full of eels'
 print $xl8r->translate('Mein Luftkissenfahrzeug ist voller Aale') . "\n";

 # switch to auto detect for source language
 $xl8r->config( src => 'auto' );

 # prints 'My hovercraft is full of eels'
 print $xl8r->translate('Mi aerodeslizador está lleno de anguilas') . "\n";

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Lingua::Translate::Google is a translation back-end for Lingua::Translate
that contacts Google translation service to do the real work.
The Google translation API is currently at:
L<http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxlanguage/documentation/#Translation>

Lingua::Translate::Google is normally invoked by Lingua::Translate; there
should be no need to call it directly.  If you do call it directly, you will
lose the ability to easily switch your programs over to alternate back-ends
that are later produced.

=over

=item Please Read

By using Google services (either directly or via this module) you are
agreeing to the Google terms of service.

L<http://www.google.com/accounts/TOS>

=item Referer URL

Google asks that you include a meaningful referer value to identify the
API users.

=item API key

The API key is optional.

L<http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxfeeds/signup.html>

=back

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new( src => $lang, dest => $lang )

Creates a new translation handle. Determines whether the requested language
pair is available and will croak if not.

=over

=item src

A valid RFC-3066 language tag or 'auto'.
See: L<I18N::LangTags>
Also see: L<LIMITATIONS>

=item dest

Destination Language

=back

Other options that may be passed to the config() function (see below) may
also be passed as arguments to this constructor.

=head1 METHODS

The following methods may be called on Lingua::Translate::Google objects.

=head2 available() : @list

Returns a list of available language pairs, in the form of 'XX_YY', where XX
is the source language and YY is the destination. If you want the english
name of a language tag, call I18N::LangTags::List::name() on it.
See L<I18N::LangTags::List>.

This method contacts Google (at http://translate.google.com/translate_t) and
parses from the HTML the available language pairs. The list of language
pairs is cached for subsequent calls.

You may also use this method to see if a given language tag is available.

 die "doesn't have 'he'"
     if !$xl8tr->available('he');

=head2 translate($text) : $translated

Translates the given text, or die's on any kind of error.

Incomming $text should be UTF-8 encoded.

=head2 agent() : LWP::UserAgent

Returns the LWP::UserAgent object used to contact Google.

=head1 CONFIG OPTIONS

=head2 config( option => $value, )

Use this to set any of these options:

=over

=item api_key

The API key is not required. But you're invited to use one as a secondary
means of identifying yourself.

See: L<http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxfeeds/signup.html>

=item referer

The value for the referer header in HTTP requests sent to the Google
translation service.

Google requests that you provide a valid referer string as the primary means
of identifying yourself. You will probably use the URL you specified when
you got your API key, or perhaps the URL where your application exists.

=item agent

The User-Agent string to use when contacting Google.

The default value is:
Lingua::Translate::Google/0.09

=item retries

The number of times to retry contacting Google if the first attempt fails.
The default value is 2.

=item src

The source language. Same as constructor src option.

=item dest

The destination language. Same as constructor dest option.

=item save_auto_lookup

Default value is true. When using the 'auto' src option, this causes the result of the first
language detect query to be saved and used on subsequent calls to translate. Set this option 
to false to require that each call to translate redetect the source language. 

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

This module supports 'auto' src tag for auto detecting the source language. However,
the calling module Lingua::Translate enforces that language tags are valid according to
I18N::LangTags::is_language_tag. To prevent this from being a problem, you need to allow 
Lingua::Translate::Google to be evaluated before the constructor call.

For example:

 use Lingua::Translate;

 Lingua::Translate::config(
     back_end => 'Google',
 );

 my $xl8r = Lingua::Translate->new(
     src      => 'auto',
     dest     => 'de',
 );

Or:

 use Lingua::Translate::Google;

 my $xl8r = Lingua::Translate->new(
     back_end => 'Google',
     src      => 'auto',
     dest     => 'de',
 );

This will fail:

 use Lingua::Translate;

 my $dies = Lingua::Translate->new(
     back_end => 'Google',
     src      => 'auto',
     dest     => 'de',
 );

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Lingua::Translate>, L<Lingua::Translate::Babelfish>,
L<LWP::UserAgent>, L<Unicode::MapUTF8>

=head1 LICENSE

This is free software, and can be used/modified under the same terms as
Perl itself.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Sam Vilain (L<http://search.cpan.org/~samv/>) wrote
Lingua::Translate::Babelfish which served as the basis for this module.

=head1 AUTHOR

Dylan Doxey, <dylan.doxey@gmail.com>

=cut
